Information about George Brown College. (˘･ᴗ･˘)

The George Brown College of Applied Arts and Technology is a public, fully accredited college of applied arts and technology with three campuses in downtown Toronto (Ontario, Canada). Like many other colleges in Ontario, George Brown College was chartered in 1966 by the government of Ontario and opened the next year.
At George Brown, we believe that finances shouldn't be a barrier to receiving an education.
We have resources available to help you pay for your college education. You can learn more about these resources below.

We understand that the financial side of college can be intimidating, but we're here to help. You can contact the Financial Aid Office at FinAid@georgebrown.ca with questions. We recommend using your GBC email which helps us verify your identity.


★ Basic information
Type	Public
Established	1967
Chancellor	Noella Milne[1]
President	Dr. Gervan Fearon[2]
Students	27,128 full-time and 58,119 continuing education registrants (2020: 15,752 FTEs)[3]
Location	Toronto, Ontario, Canada
Campus	Urban
Sports teams	Huskies


★ Course Information
Arts, Design & Information Technology 

Honours Bachelor of Brand Design 
Honours Bachelor of Digital Experience 
Business 

Honours Bachelor of Commerce (Financial Services)
Honours Bachelor of Business Administration (Business Analytics) 
Community Services & Early Childhood 

Honours Bachelor of Interpretation (American Sign Language) 
Early Childhood Education (consecutive diploma/degree) 
Honours Bachelor of Early Childhood Leadership 
Construction & Engineering Technologies  

Honours Bachelor of Technology (Construction Management) 
Health Sciences 

Honours Bachelor of Behaviour Analysis 
Bachelor of Science in Nursing 
Honours Bachelor of Science (Dental Hygiene) 
Hospitality & Culinary Arts 

Honours Bachelor of Commerce (Culinary Management) 
Honours Bachelor of Food Studies 
Honours Bachelor of Business Administration (Hospitality) 
Graduate and certificate programs, pre-college and apprentice programs round out the college's full-time offerings. As of 2022, there are 180 continuing education certificates/designations available.

In 2021, there were 27,128 full-time students — 29 percent international students — as well as 3,123 part-time students and 58,119 continuing education registrants.

George Brown has 15,000 distance education students studying in over 35 countries. One of the most popular distance education programs offered by the college is its award-winning[4] Electronics Technician distance education program, developed by Dr. Colin Simpson.

George Brown was named one of the Greater Toronto's Top Employers for 2022.[5]

In 2022, George Brown College was ranked among the top 10 research colleges in the country, ranking 8th for overall research income, and ranking 4th for both the number of paid students and for the number of completed projects. Research Infosource, which publishes annual rankings reports on research and development at institutions across Canada, released the results for the top 50 colleges in January 2022.[6]




★History

The college was established during the formation of Ontario's community college system in 1967. Colleges of Applied Arts and Technology were established on May 21, 1965. The college is named after George Brown, who was an important 19th-century politician and newspaper publisher (he founded the Toronto Globe, forerunner to The Globe and Mail) and was one of the Fathers of Confederation.
The college's predecessor, the Provincial Institute of Trades (PIT), was founded in 1951 to offer apprentice training on behalf of the provincial Department of Labour. In 1952, the PIT began operation at 21 Nassau Street in Toronto's Kensington Market and, after expanding with the construction of two additional buildings on the site, was offering programs in lathing and structural steel, barbering, diesel mechanics, jewellery arts, watchmaking and welding by 1961. In 1962 the province opened the Provincial Institute of Trades and Occupations (PITO), a sister training institute, at 555 Davenport Road near Casa Loma.

