Information about the COMP 3104 DevOps course. (*ᴗ͈ˬᴗ͈)ꕤ*.ﾟ

★Course Description
In this course students will learn the procedures, protocols and best practices that a DevOps
engineer brings to a workplace environment to increase productivity. Analyze and evaluate
various developer operation implementations available and implement hands-on work using
industry standard toolkit. Create solutions to complex business problems by adhering to the core
responsibilities of DevOps.
Course Outcomes


At the end of this course, the student will reliably demonstrate the ability to:
1. Demonstrate knowledge of effective DevOps techniques and be able to provide solutions
using industry standard tools and techniques such as continuous
integration/delivery/deployment strategies, software development lifecycle, application
containerization for deployment, etc.

2. Perform hand-on lab work by applying DevOps techniques.

3. Ensure effective cross collaboration amongst IT staff by following the role and
responsibilities of an engineer.

4. Analyze and utilize Version Control System workflows for low-risk software releases.

5. Take well informed architectural decisions for software products, specifically in the
context of monolith vs microservice architectures.

6. Monitor code quality and deploy applications to hosting services.

7. Utilize service platforms such as Infrastructure as Code and the associated benefits of
cloud computing products.

8. Identify the market space as a DevOps engineer.



★ How to success this course?

Your success in this course relies on three things:
1. Your lab and lecture attendance
2. Completion of lecture quizzes
3. Following weekly lab exercises
If you follow these three steps, the probability of your success will drastically
increase. Completing lectures and labs will be integral to obtaining your marks for
the 10 quizzes. The quizzes are designed to help determine and monitor your
understanding of the course material. If you have questions about any quiz scores,
please notify me and we can look at it together to determine any areas of
improvement.


★ Why this course matters


This course is designed to better prepare professionals entering the IT field.
Specifically, a field where servers, web apps and infrastructure will be core to
business needs. COMP 3104 will provide a hands-on experience through the
implementation of tried, tested and true DevOps technologies.
We will also examine ways in which companies have either lost or saved fortunes
with DevOps strategies. Learning about Amazon Web Services, Ansible, Docker and
Travis CI, you will become familiar with end-to-end deployment processes. You will
also have your very own build pipeline which will allow you to push changes to a
web app in the wild at the stroke of a key.
Using DevOps practices effectively will allow for a process predicated on ease to
ship code to Production servers, apply hot-fixes, catch errors before they produce
some sort of unintended behavior and keep transparency & communication
heightened across all teams. Looking at the software development lifecycle
through the lens of a DevOps Engineer will produce a more informed and qualified
developer.
